it came to
seventh year in the fifth month on the
tenth day of the month that certain of
the elders of Israel came to inquire of
the Lord and sat before me then the word
of the Lord came to me son of man speak
to the elders of Israel and say to them
thus says the Lord God have you come to
inquire of me as I live I will not be
inquired off by you will you judge them
son of man will you judge them then make
known to them the abominations of their
fathers say to them thus says the Lord
God on the day when I chose Israel and
raised my hand in an oath to the
descendants of the house of Jacob and
made myself known to them in the land of
Egypt I raised my hand in an oath to
them saying I am the Lord your God on
that day I raised my hand in an oath to
them to bring them out of the land of
Egypt into a land that I had searched
out for them flowing with milk and honey
the glory of all lands then I said to
them each of you throw away the
abominations which are before his eyes
and do not defile yourselves with the
idols of Egypt I am the Lord your God
but they rebelled against me and would
not obey me they did not all cast away
the abominations which were before their
eyes nor did they forsake the idols of
then I said I will pour out my fury on
them and fulfill my anger against them
in the midst of the land of Egypt but I
acted for my namesake that it should not
be profaned before the Gentiles among
whom they were in whose sight I had made
myself known to them to bring them out
of the land of Egypt therefore I made
them go out of the land of Egypt and
brought them into the wilderness and I
gave them my statutes and showed them my
judgments which if a man does he shall
live by them moreover I also gave them
my Sabbath's to be a sign between them
and me that they might know that I am
the lord who sanctifies them yet the
house of Israel rebelled against me in
the wilderness they did not walk in my
statutes they despised my judgments
which if a man does he shall live by
them and they greatly defiled my
Sabbath's then I said I would pour out
my fury on them in the wilderness to
consume
but I acted for my name's sake that it
should not be profaned before the
Gentiles in whose sight
I had brought them out so I also raised
my hand in an oath to them in the
wilderness that I would not bring them
into the land which I had given them
flowing with milk and honey the glory of
all lands because they despised my
judgments and did not walk in my
statutes but profaned my Sabbath's for
their heart went after their idols
nevertheless my eyes spared them from
destruction I did not make an end of
them in the wilderness but I said to
their children in the wilderness do not
walk in the statutes of your fathers nor
observe their judgments nor defile
yourselves with their idols I am the
Lord your God
walk in my statutes keep my judgments
and do them hallo my Sabbath's and they
will be a sign between me and you that
you may know that I am the Lord your God
notwithstanding the children rebelled
against me they did not walk in my
statutes and were not careful to observe
my judgments which if a man does he
shall live by them but they profaned my
Sabbath's then I said I would pour out
my fury on them and fulfill my anger
against them in the wilderness
nevertheless I withdrew my hand and
acted for my name's sake that it should
not be profaned in the sight of the
Gentiles in whose sight I had brought
them out also I raised my hand in an
oath to those in the wilderness that I
would scatter them among the Gentiles
and disperse them throughout the
countries because they had not executed
my judgments but had despised my
statutes profaned my Sabbath's and their
eyes were fixed on their father's
violence
therefore I also gave them up to
statutes that were not good and
judgments by which they could not live
and I pronounced them unclean because of
their ritual gifts in that they caused
all their first form to pass through the
fire that I might make them dissolute
and that they might know that I am
therefore son of man speak to the house
of Israel and say to them thus says the
Lord God in this to your fathers have
blasphemed me by being unfaithful to me
when I brought them into the land
concerning which I had raised my hand in
an oath to give them and they saw all
the high hills and all the thick trees
there they offered their sacrifices and
provoked me with their offerings there
they also sent up their sweet aroma and
poured out their drink offerings then I
said to them what is this high place to
which you go so its name is called Baima
to this day
therefore saved to the house of Israel
thus says the Lord God are you defiling
yourselves in the manner of your fathers
and committing harlotry according to
their abominations for when you offer
your gifts and make your sons pass
through the fire you defile yourselves
with all your idols even to this day so
shall I be inquired of by you or house
of Israel as I live says the Lord God I
will not be inquired of by you what you
have in your mind shall never be when
you say we will be like the Gentiles
like the families in other countries
serving wood and stove as I live
surely with a mighty hand with an
outstretched arm and with fury poured
out I will I will bring you out from the
peoples and gather you out of the
countries where you are scattered with a
mighty hand with an outstretched arm and
with fury poured out and I will bring
you into the wilderness of the people's
and there I will plead my case with you
face to face
just as I pleaded my case with your
father's in the wilderness of the land
of Egypt so I will plead my case with
you I will make you pass under the rod
and I will bring you into the bond of
the covenant I will purge the rebels
from among you and those who transgress
against me I will bring them out of the
country where they dwell but they shall
not enter the land of Israel then you
will know that I am
as for you Oh house of Israel thus says
the Lord God
go serve every one of you his idols and
Hereafter
if you will not obey me but profane my
Holy Name no more with your gifts and
your idols for on my holy mountain on
the mountain height of Israel says the
Lord God there all the house of Israel
all of them in the land shall serve me
there I will accept them and there I
will require your offerings and the
firstfruits of your sacrifices together
with all your holy things I will accept
you as a sweet aroma when I bring you
out from the peoples and gather you out
of the countries where you have been
scattered and I will be hallowed in you
before the Gentiles then you shall know
that I am the Lord when I bring you into
the land of Israel into the country for
which I raised my hand in an oath to
give to your fathers and there you shall
remember your ways and all your doings
with which you were defiled and you
shall load with yourselves in your own
sight because of all the evils that you
have committed then you shall know that
I am the Lord when I have dealt with you
for my name's sake not according to your
wicked ways nor according to your
corrupt doings o house of Israel
says the Lord God furthermore the word
of the Lord came to me saying son of man
set your face toward the south preach
against the south and prophesy against
the forest land the south and say to the
forest of the south hear the word of the
Lord thus says the Lord God behold I
will Kindle a fire in you and it shall
devour every green tree and every dry
tree in you the blazing flame shall not
be quenched and all faces from the south
to the north shall be scorched white all
flesh shall see that I the LORD have
kindled it it shall not be quenched
then I said ah Lord God
they say of me does he not speak
parables
you